>> Hundreds of thousands of
visitors are flocking to a site
known as the Bosnian pyramids,
discovered in 2005 by Semir
Osmanagic.
When he announced this
collection of hills
were built by an
ancient civilization,
Osmanagic became an
international celebrity.
His theories have since
been dismissed and attacked
by mainstream academics.
Gaiam TV's Regina Meredith
traveled to Bosnia
for an exclusive
interview with Osmanagic
to learn more about these
mysterious landmarks.
[SHIMMERING]
>> There are five basic factors
that are involved in deciding
and deciphering whether or not
something is a genuine pyramid.
Just run through
those really quickly,
and then we'll get
to the science.
>> So if you want to
call something a pyramid,
you have to have geometry.
Usually it's four sides,
triangular faces, corners,
the same slope.
That's what we have in the
case of the Bosnian pyramids.
The second are the orientation.
All pyramids in
China, 250 of them,
are oriented to
the cosmic north.
So far we thought
the best orientation
is the northern side of
the Great Pyramid of Egypt,
with an error of 0
degrees and 2 minutes.
>> So precise.
>> Yes.
But in our case, the State
Institute for Geography
came to the top of the
same pyramid in Bosnia,
measured it, and concluded that
the error to the perfect north
is at 0 degrees 0 minutes,
and only 12 seconds.
>> More precise than
the Giza pyramid.
>> Exactly.
It's just a fraction
of 1 minute.
This is the most precise
orientation ever on the planet.
The element number
three, you have
to have artificial
construction material.
In Peru they use adobe bricks.
In Guatemala they
shaped volcanic stones.
In Mexico, limestone.
In Egypt, limestone
in the granite.
In Bosnia, they made
concrete blocks.
This is our archaeological
trench number 4C.
We have removed approximately
one meter of layers of soil.
And then we
discovered the blocks.
This was the first
one to be discovered.
The blocks, which is
rectangular in the shape,
4 and 1/2 meters in
length, 1 and 1/2
in width, 45 centimeters thick.
It has seven 7 tons,
or 16,000 pounds.
The element number
four, inner passageways.
Our French geophysicist and
the georadar specialists
from Germany, Russia,
Austria, and Serbia,
they did prove that there is
a network of inner passageways
and chambers inside
the pyramids.
The element number five,
underground tunnels.
You have to have
underground panels as part
of the whole construction.
We had a wall here, 2010.
It was completely closed.
And then we hit another wall.
We removed the wall.
We removed the material.
And then for the
first time, we found
two open sections,
one to the left,
45 meters, one to the right,
200 meters, open, opened.
So you have construction
and structures
above and below the ground.
So you have a big master
plan when they started
building the whole project.
And finally, the element is
also important, the water.
You have to have water
above the ground,
underground water streams.
You always have the water.
You see the lake is about
150 square feet of surface,
and about a couple
of feet in depth.
Can you see the water there?
Yep.
>> Oh, that's the
reflective surface.
>> Yes.
>> Yes, uh-huh.
>> Yes, there's the water.
>> Yeah.
>> When the pyramid works it
acts also as a water pump.
It sucks the water.
The water circles everywhere.
So these are very interesting,
not only structure, but as
we proved here in
Bosnia, the machines.
>> OK, now we get to, to
me, just the astounding part
of this.
You had more analysis
done on organic material.
And I believe you
said it was trapped
between the outer surface,
blocks of the pyramid,
and the sand, and
everything that's
come over time to
revegetate the area.
>> Yes, yes.
>> And you had that analyzed.
Because that would
tell you a lot, right?
>> Exactly.
And exclusively for you guys
I can give you the results.
The results is 24,800 years,
plus, minus 200 years.
So we are going
back 25,000 years.
So this is the minimum age of
the Bosnian Pyramid of the Sun.
>> This is astounding.
>> It forever changes our
view of the ancient history.
>> Does it ever.
[SHIMMERING]